Nemotron-4-340B-Instruct
Model architectureModel sizeLanguage

Model Overview
Nemotron-4-340B-Instruct is a large language model (LLM) that can be used as part of a synthetic data generation pipeline to create training data that helps researchers and developers build their own LLMs. It is a fine-tuned version of the Nemotron-4-340B-Base model, optimized for English-based single and multi-turn chat use-cases. It supports a context length of 4,096 tokens.

The base model was pre-trained on a corpus of 9 trillion tokens consisting of a diverse assortment of English based texts, 50+ natural languages, and 40+ coding languages. Subsequently the Nemotron-4-340B-Instruct model went through additional alignment steps including:

Supervised Fine-tuning (SFT)
Direct Preference Optimization (DPO)
Reward-aware Preference Optimization (RPO) (Additional in-house alignment technique)
Throughout the alignment process, we relied on only approximately 20K human-annotated data while our data generation pipeline synthesized over 98% of the data used for supervised fine-tuning and preference fine-tuning (DPO & RPO). We provide comprehensive details about our synthetic data generation pipeline in the technical report.

This results in a model that is aligned for human chat preferences, improvements in mathematical reasoning, coding and instruction-following, and is capable of generating high quality synthetic data for a variety of use cases.

Under the NVIDIA Open Model License, NVIDIA confirms: Models are commercially usable. You are free to create and distribute Derivative Models. NVIDIA does not claim ownership to any outputs generated using the Models or Derivative Models.

License:
NVIDIA Open Model License

Intended use
Nemotron-4-340B-Instruct is a chat model intended for use for the English language.

Nemotron-4-340B-Instruct is designed for Synthetic Data Generation to enable developers and enterprises for building and customizing their own large language models and LLM applications.

The instruct model itself can be further customized using the NeMo Framework suite of customization tools including Parameter-Efficient Fine-Tuning (P-tuning, Adapters, LoRA, and more), and Model Alignment (SFT, SteerLM, RLHF, and more) using NeMo-Aligner.

Model Developer: NVIDIA

Model Dates: Nemotron-4-340B-Instruct was trained between December 2023 and May 2024.

Data Freshness: The pretraining data has a cutoff of June 2023.

Required Hardware
BF16 Inference:

8x H200 (1x H200 node)
16x H100 (2x H100 nodes)
16x A100 80GB (2x A100 80GB nodes)
Model Architecture:
Nemotron-4-340B-Instruct is standard decoder-only Transformer, trained with a sequence length of 4096 tokens, uses Grouped-Query Attention (GQA), and Rotary Position Embeddings (RoPE).

Architecture Type: Transformer Decoder (auto-regressive language model)

Network Architecture: Nemotron-4

Prompt Format
Note: For Nemotron-4-340B-Instruct we recommend keeping the system prompt empty